Add expanded DNS configuration KEP (#2596)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-network/2595-expanded-dns-config/README.md

over from the previous version which have the expanded DNS configuration could
be problematic.

### Risks and Mitigations

There may be some environments(DNS resolver or others) that break without
current limitations. At this point, it is fair to open a bug, so they can fix it.

## Design Details

- Declare and define `MaxDNSSearchPathsExpanded` to `32` and
`MaxDNSSearchListCharsExpanded` to `2048`
- Add the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig` (see [Feature Enablement and
Rollback](#feature-enablement-and-rollback))
- If the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig` is enabled, replace
`MaxDNSSearchPaths` with `MaxDNSSearchPathsExpanded` and replace
`MaxDNSSearchListChars` with `MaxDNSSearchListCharsExpanded` to allow expanded
DNS configuration

### Test Plan

- Add unit tests of validating expanded DNS config

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha -> Beta Graduation

- Address feedback from alpha
- Sufficient testing

#### Beta -> GA Graduation

- Address feedback from beta
- Sufficient number of users using the feature
- Close on any remaining open issues & bugs

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

N/A

### Version Skew Strategy

> In clusters with a replicated control plane, all kube-apiservers should enable

Reviewer: This is more about kubelets.  It is valid to have kubelets be a (slightly) lower version than apiserver.  Looking at kubelet code I can see this will throw warnings (pkg/kubelet/network/dns/dns.go `Configurer.CheckLimitsForResolvConf()`) but that does not hard-fail.  Still worth noting here.

In the same file, `Configurer.formDNSSearchFitsLimits()`, it *does* truncate.  That is what is important to note here (and to test-confirm) -- back-rev kubelet should be fine, it will just truncate the results.

Author: Updated.

thanks @thockin

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

- **How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?**
  - [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
    - Feature gate name: `ExpandedDNSConfig`
    - Components depending on the feature gate:
      - `kubelet`
      - `kube-apiserver`
  - [ ] Other
    - Describe the mechanism:
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime of the control
      plane?
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime or reprovisioning
      of a node? (Do not assume `Dynamic Kubelet Config` feature is enabled).

- **Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?**

Enabling this feature allows kubernetes to have objects(Pod or PodTemplate) with
the expanded DNS configuration.

- **Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?**

Yes, the feature can be disabled by disabling the feature gate.

Once the feature is disabled, kube-apiserver will reject the pod having expanded
DNS configuration and kubelet will create a resolver configuration excluding the
overage.

- **What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?**

> It should continue to work as expected.

Reviewer 2: I assume this means:

If a Pod is recreated from a spec with the expanded configuration (for example by a Deployment), the new Pod will be created by the kubelet with expanded configuration.

Author: Yes, it does. updated.

- **Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?**

We will add unit tests.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

- **How can a rollout fail? Can it impact already running workloads?**

> N/A

Reviewer 2: If a bug, say, writes invalid resolv.conf, that would cause new workloads to fail.

- **What specific metrics should inform a rollback?**

> N/A

Reviewer 2: If new workloads start to fail DNS lookups due to a corrupted resolv.conf, or due to older resolver libraries, that would be an indication to rollback the enablement.

- **Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?**

N/A

- **Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?**

N/A

> ### Monitoring Requirements

Reviewer 2: Are these all marked N/A because this is just alpha? If so, please state that.

- **How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?**

> N/A

Reviewer 2: They can query the api server and look for pods/templates/deployments with a larger-than-previously-allowed nameserver entry.

- **What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?**
  - [ ] Metrics
    - Metric name:
    - [Optional] Aggregation method:
    - Components exposing the metric:
  - [ ] Other (treat as last resort)
    - Details:

N/A

- **What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the above SLIs?**

N/A

- **Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?**

N/A

### Dependencies

- **Does this feature depend on any specific services running in the cluster?**

> N/A

Reviewer 2: I think the answer here is "No" not "N/A".

### Scalability

- **Will enabling / using this feature result in any new API calls?**

N/A

- **Will enabling / using this feature result in introducing new API types?**

N/A

- **Will enabling / using this feature result in any new calls to the cloud provider?**

N/A

- **Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?**

> N/A

Reviewer 2: Marginal possible increase in DNSConfig.

the overage and apply the actual DNS resolver configuration.

In clusters with a replicated control plane, all kube-apiservers should enable
or disable the expanded DNS configuration feature.

## Production Readiness Review Questionnaire

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

- **How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?**
  - [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
    - Feature gate name: `ExpandedDNSConfig`
    - Components depending on the feature gate:
      - `kubelet`
      - `kube-apiserver`
  - [ ] Other
    - Describe the mechanism:
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime of the control
      plane?
    - Will enabling / disabling the feature require downtime or reprovisioning
      of a node? (Do not assume `Dynamic Kubelet Config` feature is enabled).

- **Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?**

Enabling this feature allows kubernetes to have objects(Pod or PodTemplate) with
the expanded DNS configuration.

- **Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?**

Yes, the feature can be disabled by disabling the feature gate.

> Once the feature is disabled, kube-apiserver will reject the pod having expanded

Reviewer 3: @gjkim42 what happens to existing pods in the API when the feature gate is disabled, and then something tries to update non-DNS podSpec fields? Do those things just their update denied, even though they didn't change any relevant fields?

Author: > what happens to existing pods in the API when the feature gate is disabled

The existing pods will be running with the expanded DNS config.

> and then something tries to update non-DNS podSpec fields? Do those things just their update denied, even though they didn't change any relevant fields?

In v1.22 or higher, you can update non-DNSConfig podSpec fields, because we will add the exception. See [PR](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/100651).
In v1.21 or lower, any update requests will be denied, if the pod already had expanded DNS config.

style guide]. In particular, wrap lines to a reasonable length, to make it
easier for reviewers to cite specific portions, and to minimize diff churn on
updates.

[documentation style guide]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/style-guide.md
-->

Allow kubernetes to have expanded DNS(Domain Name System) configuration.

## Motivation

<!--
This section is for explicitly listing the motivation, goals, and non-goals of
this KEP.  Describe why the change is important and the benefits to users. The
motivation section can optionally provide links to [experience reports] to
demonstrate the interest in a KEP within the wider Kubernetes community.

[experience reports]: https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/ExperienceReports
-->

Kubernetes today limits DNS configuration according to the obsolete
criteria(https://access.redhat.com/solutions/58028). As recent DNS resolvers
allow an arbitrary number of search paths, a new feature gate
`ExpandedDNSConfig` will be introduced. With this feature, kubernetes allows
more DNS search paths and longer list of DNS search paths to keep up with recent
DNS resolvers.

> 

Reviewer 4: maybe you should mention here that this is supported on (quoting) from https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/100622
```
 Confirm various DNS resolvers
 glibc 2.17-323
 glibc 2.28
 musl 1.22
 pure go 1.10 resolver
 pure go 1.16 resolver
 1.22: Prepare to relax the constraints of the PodDNSConfig - #100583
 1.23: Relax the constraints unconditionally
```

Author: Updated. Thanks!

- Let cluster administrators limit the number of search paths or the length of
DNS search path list to an arbitrary number

## Proposal

<!--
This is where we get down to the specifics of what the proposal actually is.
This should have enough detail that reviewers can understand exactly what
you're proposing, but should not include things like API designs or
implementation. What is the desired outcome and how do we measure success?.
The "Design Details" section below is for the real
nitty-gritty.
-->

- Expand `MaxDNSSearchPaths` to 32
- Expand `MaxDNSSearchListChars` to 2048

### User Stories (Optional)

<!--
Detail the things that people will be able to do if this KEP is implemented.
Include as much detail as possible so that people can understand the "how" of
the system. The goal here is to make this feel real for users without getting
bogged down.
-->

#### Story 1

#### Story 2

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

> <!--

Reviewer 4: ```
Risk: There is some computer programming language or supported OS or architecture that breaks without current limitations.
Mitigation: I think that at this point is fair to open a bug so they can fix it.
```

Author: updated :)

#### Alpha -> Beta Graduation

- Gather feedback from developers and surveys
- Complete features A, B, C
- Tests are in Testgrid and linked in KEP

#### Beta -> GA Graduation

- N examples of real-world usage
- N installs
- More rigorous forms of testing—e.g., downgrade tests and scalability tests
- Allowing time for feedback

**Note:** Generally we also wait at least two releases between beta and
GA/stable, because there's no opportunity for user feedback, or even bug reports,
in back-to-back releases.

#### Removing a Deprecated Flag

- Announce deprecation and support policy of the existing flag
- Two versions passed since introducing the functionality that deprecates the flag (to address version skew)
- Address feedback on usage/changed behavior, provided on GitHub issues
- Deprecate the flag

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
[conformance tests].**

[conformance tests]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md
-->

#### Alpha -> Beta Graduation

- Address feedback from alpha
- Sufficient testing

> #### Beta -> GA Graduation

Reviewer 4: should we go to beta directly and enable it by default?

Author: I think it would be ok to enable it by default.

Reviewer 5: the relaxed validation cannot allow new expanded data into objects by default in the first release, since it would allow data the previous API server version would choke on

Author: @liggitt 
Isn't it enough to wrap the feature into the feature gate to make the user can disable it if there is such a case?

Reviewer 5: no. that means that, by default, the first version of the API server including this feature allows storing unsafe data. we must default safe.

Author: Ah... I think you are right. Let's go to alpha and disable the feature by default.

Reviewer: Agree.  We can very likely skip beta, but we can't skip alpha

<!--
If applicable, how will the component be upgraded and downgraded? Make sure
this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing an upgrade/downgrade strategy for this
enhancement:
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to maintain previous behavior?
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to make use of the enhancement?
-->

N/A

### Version Skew Strategy

<!--
If applicable, how will the component handle version skew with other
components? What are the guarantees? Make sure this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing a version skew strategy for this
enhancement:
- Does this enhancement involve coordinating behavior in the control plane and
  in the kubelet? How does an n-2 kubelet without this feature available behave
  when this feature is used?
- Will any other components on the node change? For example, changes to CSI,
  CRI or CNI may require updating that component before the kubelet.
-->

In HA(highly-available) clusters, all kube-apiservers should enable or disable

> expanded DNS configuration feature.

Reviewer 4: there should be no problem meanwhile they don't create pods with an expanded DNSConfig

Author: I think we should avoid the situation that there are 1.22 apiserver, 1.21 apiserver and pod having expanded DNS configuration because of roll-back.
If a user updates the pod, it can be updated by 1.22 apiserver or blocked by 1.21 apiserver.

notes and implementing the feature itself. KEP editors and SIG Docs
should help to ensure that the tone and content of the `Summary` section is
useful for a wide audience.

A good summary is probably at least a paragraph in length.

Both in this section and below, follow the guidelines of the [documentation
style guide]. In particular, wrap lines to a reasonable length, to make it
easier for reviewers to cite specific portions, and to minimize diff churn on
updates.

[documentation style guide]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/style-guide.md
-->

Allow kubernetes to have expanded DNS(Domain Name System) configuration.

## Motivation

<!--
This section is for explicitly listing the motivation, goals, and non-goals of
this KEP.  Describe why the change is important and the benefits to users. The
motivation section can optionally provide links to [experience reports] to
demonstrate the interest in a KEP within the wider Kubernetes community.

[experience reports]: https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/ExperienceReports
-->

Kubernetes today limits DNS configuration according to the obsolete

> criteria(https://access.redhat.com/solutions/58028). As recent DNS resolvers

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[criteria](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/58028). As recent DNS resolvers
```
?

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

There may be some environments(DNS resolver or others) that break without
current limitations. At this point, it is fair to open a bug, so they can fix it.

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

<!--
This section should contain enough information that the specifics of your
change are understandable. This may include API specs (though not always
required) or even code snippets. If there's any ambiguity about HOW your
proposal will be implemented, this is the place to discuss them.
-->

- Declare and define `MaxDNSSearchPathsExpanded` to `32` and
`MaxDNSSearchListCharsExpanded` to `2048`

> - Add the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Add the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig` (see [Feature Enablement and Rollback](#feature-enablement-and-rollback))
```

- Close on any remaining open issues & bugs

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

<!--
If applicable, how will the component be upgraded and downgraded? Make sure
this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing an upgrade/downgrade strategy for this
enhancement:
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to maintain previous behavior?
- What changes (in invocations, configurations, API use, etc.) is an existing
  cluster required to make on upgrade, in order to make use of the enhancement?
-->

N/A

### Version Skew Strategy

<!--
If applicable, how will the component handle version skew with other
components? What are the guarantees? Make sure this is in the test plan.

Consider the following in developing a version skew strategy for this
enhancement:
- Does this enhancement involve coordinating behavior in the control plane and
  in the kubelet? How does an n-2 kubelet without this feature available behave
  when this feature is used?
- Will any other components on the node change? For example, changes to CSI,
  CRI or CNI may require updating that component before the kubelet.
-->

> In HA(highly-available) clusters, all kube-apiservers should enable or disable
> expanded DNS configuration feature.

Reviewer 6: I'd write:
```suggestion
In clusters with a replicated control plane, all kube-apiservers should enable or
disable the expanded DNS configuration feature.
```

Author: All done.

- [ ] (R) KEP approvers have approved the KEP status as `implementable`
- [ ] (R) Design details are appropriately documented
- [ ] (R) Test plan is in place, giving consideration to SIG Architecture and SIG Testing input (including test refactors)
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

> <!--

Reviewer: You can remove all the comment blocks :)

Author: Done :)
